Update enrichment pages (#1773)
snowplow/documentation: docs/pipeline/enrichments/available-enrichments/custom-sql-enrichment/index.md

keywords: ["SQL enrichment", "database lookup", "relational database enrichment"]
---

import SchemaProperties from "@site/docs/reusable/schema-properties/_index.md"

The SQL query enrichment lets you add data to a Snowplow event via your own MySQL or PostgreSQL relational database.

Supported database types:
- MySQL, plus variants which speak MySQL e.g. MariaDB, Amazon Aurora
- PostgreSQL, plus variants which speak PostgreSQL

We don't recommend using this enrichment with analytical databases such as Redshift. These databases are optimized for large analytical queries, not the high-frequency, low-latency per-event lookups this enrichment requires.

## Configuration

> For historical reasons, the configuration uses nomenclature that's no longer used elsewhere in Snowplow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For historical reasons, the configuration uses terms that's no longer used elsewhere in Snowplow.
```

```mdx-code-block
import TestingWithMicro from "@site/docs/reusable/test-enrichment-with-micro/_index.md"

<TestingWithMicro/>
```

### `inputs`

The SQL statement you provide can include placeholders. These will be replaced with actual values from the event, called `inputs`.

The enrichment can use any property in the event as input data. The values can be extracted from:
- [Atomic event properties](/docs/fundamentals/canonical-event/index.md) such as `user_id`
- [Self-describing event](/docs/fundamentals/events/index.md#self-describing-events) fields
- [Entities](/docs/fundamentals/entities/index.md) attached by tracker SDKs
- Entities attached by other enrichments

> Each input consists of a `placeholder` index and a source: `pojo` for atomic event fields, or `json` for self-describing JSON fields, whether event or entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each input consists of a `placeholder` index and a source: `pojo` for atomic event fields, or `json` for JSON fields, whether event or entity.
```

> The `placeholder` is the index of the `?` SQL placeholder which this input will be used to populate. It must be an integer greater than or equal to 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `placeholder` is the index of the `?` SQL placeholder which this input will populate. It must be an integer greater than or equal to 1.
```

For `json`, specify the field name as either `unstruct_event` for self-describing event fields, `contexts` for fields in entities added during tracking, or `derived_contexts` for fields in enrichment entities. Add two additional fields:

> - `schemaCriterion` is the self-describing JSON URI. You can specify all versions of the schema (`*-*-*`), or a specific MODEL version (e.g. `1-*-*`), MODEL plus MINOR (e.g. `1-1-*`) or a full MODEL-MINOR-PATCH version (e.g. `1-1-1`)

Reviewer: Same suggestion as for API enrichment

- `jsonPath` is the [JSON Path statement](http://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/) to navigate to the field inside the JSON that you want to use as the input.

> The resolved values should be primitive types.

Reviewer: Same as API enrichment

As shown in the example configuration, you can have multiple inputs with the same placeholder index. The enrichment will use the last configured input for that index that resolves to a non-null value. This allows you to specify fallback inputs.

### `database`

Configure how the enrichment should access your database in the `database` section. Populate all properties in the `postgresql` or `mysql` configuration object:
- `host`: the hostname or IP address of the database server or cluster
- `port`: the port to connect to the database on
- `sslMode`: whether the database requires connections to use SSL
- `username`: the username for the database login
- `password`: the password for this username
- `database`: the name of the specific database to run the query against

:::tip[Minimal permissions]

> We strongly recommend that the username has minimal read-only permissions on just the tables required to execute the SQL query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We strongly recommend to restrict the username to minimal read-only permissions on just the tables required to execute the query.
```

:::

> If your database server has additional authentication in place, such as IP whitelisting, configure it to permit access from all of your servers running the Snowplow enrichment process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your database server has additional authentication in place, such as IP allowlisting, configure it to permit access from the NAT gateway associated with the Snowplow pipeline.
```

### `query`

> Consists of a single `sql` key with a SQL query in the form of prepared statement. It will run on your relational database to return rows to attach to this event as entities. Use `?` placeholders in the query to indicate where the input values should be substituted. Values will be inserted according to their type: strings will be quoted, numbers won’t.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consists of a single `sql` key with an SQL query in the form of prepared statement. It will run on your relational database to return rows to attach to this event as entities. Use `?` placeholders in the query to indicate where the input values should be substituted. Values will be inserted according to their type: strings will be quoted, numbers won’t.
```
Or I guess it depends on how you say it

If a placeholder index required in the `sql` prepared statement isn't found in any of the `inputs`, then the lookup won't proceed, but this will **not** be flagged as a failure.

A final `;` is optional.

:::warning[No validation]
This enrichment makes no attempt to sanitize the SQL statement, nor to verify that the SQL statement doesn't have harmful side effects such as SQL injection.
:::

### `output`

The enrichment adds the returned rows to the event as one or more entities. You'll need to specify the schema or data structure that the enrichment should use to define the retrieved data.

The `output` object has two keys: `expectedRows` and `json`. The `expectedRows` enum defines the expected SQL output:
- `EXACTLY_ONE`: exactly one row is expected. 0 or 2+ rows will throw an error, causing the entire event to fail processing.
- `AT_MOST_ONE`: either one or zero rows is expected. 2+ rows will throw an error.
- `AT_LEAST_ZERO`: between 0 and N rows are expected, i.e. an array of results.
- `AT_LEAST_ONE`: between 1 and N rows are expected, i.e. an array of results. 0 rows will throw an error.

> Within the `json` key, use `schema` to specify the schema URI you want to attach to the event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within the `json` key, use `schema` to specify the URI of the schema you want to attach to the event.
```

The `describes` field configures whether to add one entity containing all the returned rows, or one entity per returned row. This will depend on your schema definition. Supported options are:
- `ALL_ROWS` means that the added entity will contain all the returned rows
- `EVERY_ROW` means that one entity will be added per returned row

The `propertyNames` field supports reformatting of the returned columns to fit the schema. Supported options are:
- `AS_IS`: preserve the column names exactly as they are
- `CAMEL_CASE`: e.g. `date_of_birth` becomes `dateOfBirth`
- `PASCAL_CASE`: e.g. `date_of_birth` becomes `DateOfBirth`
- `SNAKE_CASE`: e.g. `dateOfBirth` becomes `date_of_birth`
- `LOWER_CASE`: changes all characters to lowercase
- `UPPER_CASE`: changes all characters to uppercase

You could also use column aliasing in your SQL statement to change individual column names.

### `cache`

> A Snowplow enrichment can run many millions of time per hour, effectively launching a DoS attack on a data source. The `cache` configuration attempts to minimize the number of lookups performed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An enrichment can run many millions of time per hour, effectively launching a DoS attack on a data source. The `cache` configuration attempts to minimize the number of lookups performed.
```

The cache is an LRU (least-recently used) cache, where less frequently accessed values are evicted to make space for new values. Configure the `cache` as follows:
- `size` is the maximum number of entries to hold in the cache at any one time. The minimum value is `1`.

> - `ttl` is the number of seconds that an entry can stay in the cache before it is forcibly evicted. This is useful to prevent stale values from being retrieved in the case that your database can return different values for the same key over time.

Reviewer: No setting to 0?

### `ignoreOnError`

When set to `true`, if the SQL query fails, the event is still considered successfully enriched. It'll be loaded as usual, except without the entities added by the enrichment.

When set to `false`, the event will become a [failed event](/docs/fundamentals/failed-events/index.md) if the SQL query fails.

## Edge case handling

> This enrichment uses any relational database to fetch data in JSON format. Here are some clues on how this enrichment will handle some exceptional cases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This enrichment uses a relational database to fetch data in JSON format. Here are some clues on how this enrichment will handle some exceptional cases:
```

| Scenario                                                         | Outcome                                                                                                        |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | A provided JSONPath is invalid.                                  | Failed event.                                                                                                  |

Reviewer: Same comment as for API enrichment: which of the failures are ignored with `ignoreOnError`?
